i'm a human with all of the range
emotions ups downs fears insecurities
doubts all that kind of stuff however
i've also figured out how to program my
body to perform or at least acknowledge
go like oh i'm afraid right now because
like if i let go of this tent like i
could die
however that fear could either be
paralyzing meaning oh my god and that's
where i make a mistake because i'm so
afraid and i'm shaky and i'm like what
do i do where i go like oh i'm afraid
right now that's my body's response
telling me like the stakes are real this
is the time in your brain we need to
take that fear and channel the strength
from that fear and go oh this is what
means you need to focus right now you
need to double check that knot you need
to really make sure your systems are
dialed you need to take a breath and
slow down and all that and so it's not
about being fearless as in not having
fear but it's being able to assimilate
fear to not let it paralyze you and
using that as strength to focus or
whatever the situation may be
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is one of the most
accomplished mountaineers and endurance
athletes the world has ever seen he set
two all-time records in the explorer's
grand slam which saw him climb the seven
highest mountain peaks on each of the
seven continents as well as trekking to
both the north and the south poles fewer
than 50 people in all of human history
have ever accomplished the feat and he
did it in a record-shattering 139
days
he also holds the record for the fastest
scaling of the 50 u.s high points which
he managed to do in just 21 days and
additionally he competed in 25
triathlons on six different continents
and holds the mind-blowing distinction
of being the first human ever to cross
the entire continent of antarctica solo
completely unsupported and unaided a
nearly 1 000 mile death-defying journey
that he did in just 54 days now all of
this would be impressive no matter what
but what makes his tale even more
extraordinary is that he did all of this
after being horribly burned in a tragic
accident and being told that he may
never walk normally again proving the
power of the human mind however just 18
months later he won the largest
triathlon in the u.s
so please help me in welcoming the first
person to snap from mount everest to an
audience of 22 million people one of the
biggest badasses in the world of human
achievement colin o'brady
thanks for having me man it's great to
be here it's fantastic to be here what
you've done is so insane dude and like
as somebody who
for a while i boarded on almost phobic
of the cold so the thought of
walking across by myself in an area
where you can throw boiling water into
the air and watch it turn into ice yes
indeed that's uh that's insane man so
what is it about
those kind of journeys that
like makes you want to do it it just
seems so
freaky yeah it's a good question what is
freaky uh you know it's fun to talk
about the external obviously you know
antarctica average temperature minus 25
degrees like you said boiling water into
ice in an instant so to be out you know
in those conditions alone
like you said unsupported unaided which
meant i had to have all my gear and
supplies in a sled so no resupplies
throughout the entire time it's just me
mono imano no kites or dogs pulling me
along just me pulling my sled um you
know that's hard in itself the physical
preparation you know we can get into
that but what really inspires me to do
these types of things is the journey
into the mind is sort of the depths that
i can discover about myself and for me
you know having an endurance athlete and
as you mentioned setting some other
world records previously i loved doing
that but what really attracted me to
antarctica specifically was the fact of
this kind of clean blank white canvas
for lack of a better word you know
you're talking about a place that
basically has nothing on the horizon
during the time i was down there to
antarctica summer so our winter so 24
hours of daylight
and i thought what place plays better
than to push myself as an endurance
athlete try to do something that no one
in history has ever done people been
trying for 100 years but more so the
curiosity and my personal why was around
what happens into the mind what is the
sort of soulful journey that you can get
into where can you find flow states and
moments of high performance as well as
battle your own demons when there is
just this you know endless white
landscape and nothing to distract you
when you're out there you've talked
about these endurance feats becoming
like art for you and that your canvas is
the endurance sport i want to talk about
like so when i think about artistic
expression
it's an active process for me where i
feel um
stephen king said it best when he said
you when it's you're really in a flow
state you feel like you're channeling
like something's just happening through
you yeah so
that is a fun wave for me to ride as a
writer and that's where you're sort of
going you're you're really experiencing
something and it's fascinating to me the
characters that pop into my head or the
things that they say because you know
it's some part of you
which really gets interesting so what is
that sort of running dialogue that
you're having when you're out there
that's led you to say that this is like
an artistic expression you know for me i
have to go back a little bit in my life
you know i
was a great athlete throughout my life
you know i was a collegiate swimmer and
raised triathlon professionally as you
mentioned and these other world records
and through that i kind of you know in
the sort of the world the way people
identified me the way i identified
myself was i'm an elite athlete i'm a
professional athlete that's what i am um
and i think of art at least in my
younger age i don't know but a thing of
art is like being able to draw well or
be able to compose music both things i'm
terrible at to be perfectly honest um
and so i was like oh i'm not an artist
i'm an athlete um and then a couple
years ago actually when i was at burning
man um it was the first time really
where with all of the sort of art that
goes on there that's collaborative that
you can touch that involves all the
senses the huge installations and
everything and the whole kind of
environment in itself is this sort of
collaborative art piece i was like oh
art art isn't the way i frame the word
in my mind creativity is a whole other
thing and actually what i'm doing
through my projects is my canvas just
happens to be endurance sports that's my
craft that's what i've beat on for years
and years and years but what i'm
actually trying to do in the world is
tell stories show my story and showcase
it in a way that isn't about people
watching the athlete in the arena
compete some world record but more so
how can we create stories to have this
ripple effect of positivity and impact
throughout the world so start a
non-profit that was focused on inspiring
kids to get outside move their bodies
with active healthy lives through our
sort of storytelling and creative
mediums you mentioned snapchatting from
the summit ever it's really sharing
these stories in a way not that someone
who can be like dude colin you're a
badass that's awesome i'm kind of like
okay like that's you know
semi-interesting what's interesting to
me is when someone's like holy i've
been talking about starting that
business for the last 10 years but like
you actually went out there and did the
thing thank you for doing that because
i'm actually now starting that business
or the way my wife and i have kind of
really built and co-created this
together a huge part of this story i'll
talk more about her for sure but you
know when someone says like hey because
of what you guys have demonstrated i'm
leaning into my relationship in a way
that i never have before or you know i i
am gonna you know dance or create or
whatever that is in their own life and
so for me
i started to think of myself less as an
athlete and more as an artist and really
this was just my creative platform for
doing that to hopefully have my creative
expression into the world and i think
for you is what you're doing here with
impact theory the storytelling i know a
little bit of your story about your
dreams and aspirations around movie
studios and things like that which is
incredible um is just the same idea
right it's like the power of
storytelling the power to move people
through action um and so that's how i've
sort of reframed in my mind of thinking
of this as the sort of art expressions
and me being out there walking across
antarctica or whatever i you know happen
to do next with my body is just my
expression of that in the world
i think i'm accurately quoting you to
say that you said something very close
to we are the story that we tell
ourselves
talk to me a little bit about
self-narrative especially in light of
that day one when you started the
journey to cross antarctica
where you hit real doubt
right off the bat like what what were
you saying to yourself and how did you
manage to keep going yeah i mean i i
love that phrase we are the story we
tell ourselves i'm such a such a big
believer that um you could have a
pessimistic an optimistic standpoint you
can sort of like i said for the longest
time i was like i'm an athlete i'm
terrible at art and now i'm like wait
i'm an artist like this is creative it's
just if it's just reframing in my mind
but that first day literally um you know
my wife and i planned this project for
well over a year
and kind of been out in the zeitgeist of
exploration as being an impossible
project a couple years prior to me a guy
died attempting this crossing a couple
years later one of the most prolific
polar explorers
went out there and after 54 days ran low
on food and supplies and actually had to
be rescued out of there before he fully
ran out of food and people were like
look this project's impossible because
it's this math equation of you can't
carry enough in your sled
without being resupplied because it's
too heavy to move it at first to get
across the continent but if you take too
little you're going to run out of food
somewhere on the other side trying to
make this traverse so it's a square
weird math equation people like it's
impossible so we literally jenna and i
decided to name our project the
impossible first not as a song like
cocky ploy like people call us
impossible like we're so much better we
can do it it was like literally like
this might be impossible but i saw on
your wall over there you know you you
miss a hundred percent of the shots that
you don't take it's like but we're
willing to try like we're willing to
engage this process and if we fail in
trying something that is seemingly
impossible well we're sure gonna
learn a lot along the way along this
incredible journey so like let's go
after it let's call it the impossible
first and if we happen to figure out how
to get the other side heck yeah even
better um but you know you know kind of
getting back to that i mean for me
that story that we tell ourselves that
first day you know i literally land
there after all this planning all this
preparation media press storytelling
around this and i get out there i put my
sled and i strap in the first day and
like i can't pull my sled like
i'm like uh like uh like i mean i can
move it a little bit but not in any sort
of sustainable way
at all and a little bit of context in
the story is that another british
explorer actually was attempting this
crossing at the exact same time um not
not like sort of at the same time like
literally we were dropped off one mile
equal distance away from each other so
not only racing history but now we're
racing each other head to head because
the logistics are so complex that it
meant we literally had to take the same
plane the same drop-off point on the
same day like ready go and so you know
he's this sort of you know
grizzled polar veteran um older than me
but way more experienced than me as well
he's you know he's crossed more you know
miles in antarctica than any living
explorer pulling a sled and on that
first day i can barely pull my sled and
this is this captain lou i see him on
the horizon just like chilling just like
taking off just like he's like smooth
ski stroke day one like looking behind
me like oh this kid does he can't even
move on the first day and so that
question like where are the stories we
tell us what do i tell myself in that
moment do i go like
wow i am an epic failure i'm alone in
antarctica
my competition is way more prepared than
me
what did i get myself into you called
your project the impossible first duh
like i literally pick up the satellite
phone to call jenna my wife she knows
she's in the details of the whole
project plans and she's like why are you
calling me so soon you just got out
there and i'm like so it seems like we
named our project the right thing it
appears that it's um impossible um and
she's like wait what i was like yeah i
can't really pull the sled so to me it's
that moment and i think we have a lot of
these moments both in the you know large
sense in this case or many millions ones
throughout the day small decisions of
you get to choose how to act in that
moment what i've realized is our minds
are flooded with doubt we're flooded
with fear we're flooded with setbacks
right but in those moments like we
actually get to choose and i've realized
to me i say the only question that truly
matters when facing those kind of
obstacles is how will we respond i'm
literally crying at this moment when
it's minus 25 what happens when you cry
your tears freeze to your face it's a
pathetic sight like all around
um but i said to myself and actually
with the guidance of jenna who's
certainly been you know a huge guiding
force to me if i haven't mentioned her
enough already i'll continue to um and
she goes
look how far away are you from the first
waypoint and you know on my gps i've got
these ps4 markings on the map and at the
time i'm like you know i'm .54 miles
away from the phrase there's millions of
miles like okay so you're half a mile
away from the first waypoint forget
about the thousand mile journey forget
about captain lou that's like already
beating you in this race forget about
the media the press the students falling
all in the classrooms forget about that
you need to set an incremental step
right there half a mile like i can see
for 10 miles so i can literally see the
point i'm trying to go half a mile she's
like get to the first waypoint that will
make it feel like you've made some sort
of progress around this like forget
about tomorrow forget about the next day
and to me that was just that that
mindset shift so instead of you know two
things the story i tell myself wasn't
you're a failure you always knew this
wasn't going to go right it was like oh
i'm the type of person that does hard
things to push myself and learn
and i know it's going to be hard in fact
i know i'm on the edge of failure and
inch from failure a lot of the time
but that's when i thrive because we can
i can lean into my support system i can
reprogram in my mind tell myself a
different story so the story i told
myself that day was like oh you're the
guy who's gonna make it to the first
waypoint today and then tomorrow morning
like we're gonna figure out tomorrow
tomorrow
and that and that's kind of where the
journey began not in the not in the way
i hoped it would start but uh in a way
that uh you know forced me to really
start learning and growing right out of
the gate i love that and to me like
reading about your story and listening
to you talk about it that was the part
that made it so interesting to me was
not that it came easily because
talk about the story you tell yourself
you could also be telling the story of
oh well this is a guy who's a
two-state champion in swimming and
soccer and he's you know been athletic
his entire life and like just has this
history of getting momentum going
especially when it's like a physical
thing and so yeah of course he is able
to do this yeah but when it's a story of
no there's literally this external um
show of me not being prepared that i
don't have the experience that somebody
else has they're they're you know
disappearing off into the distance and
my journey has to be one of overcoming
my own mind yeah and i found that really
interesting in your ted talk you said
the biggest obstacle you're ever going
to have to overcome is your mind yeah i
thought that was really interesting
what's your relationship to fear
i mean
i love what you say there i would take
it back one step which is
the sort of external experience of
others when you've had success so like
you said it's easy to sit for me to sit
here i'm like yeah i have four world
records you know collegiate athlete this
that and the other thing like of course
you're gonna do this i gotta sit here i
don't know you very well but i do know a
bit of your story it's like yeah man
you're a super successful business you
must just like crush business like you
know about cpg supply chain that like
all these sorts of things right like
that should do but like i know because
i've sat with enough successful people
to be like actually you probably didn't
know what you were doing when you
started and you probably failed
thousands of times along the way the
reason you've been successful is because
you figured out those incremental steps
those shifts those adaptations those oh
moments it's all gonna blow up and
putting out a fire here and there right
like that is the road to success is
managing all these little failures along
the way and so for me
in sharing my story it's like
you know
i i like watching the olympics just like
anyone right um there's certain sports
i'm interested not interested in but
like curling for example not a sport i
know a ton about but if a guy's like i
won the gold medal on that i'm like oh
okay fine but give me his whole
backstory about how he started throwing
stones on a pond in canada when he was
four years old and the whole process
like i'm interested like the journey is
interesting to me so for me sharing it
as authentically and candid as i have
it's easy to be like yeah i've walked
across antarctica no one in history had
ever done it people been trying for
years like oh i'm so amazing like no
it's like actually like i set this
massive goal and on hour one day one
like i literally thought about giving up
like that's how hard it was um and we
figured it out and so i don't know that
that piece of it the mind in terms of
the mind and fear fear is very real i
think that one of the external
perceptions of me if you read you know a
two sentence bio is oh that guy's a
thrill seeker that guy's you know a risk
taker adrenaline junkie you know that
kind of stuff he's putting his life on
the line whereas i actually think about
it very differently which is the things
that i'm doing yes there is some
implicit danger in you know climbing a
mount everest or being alone in
antarctica for two months absolutely but
i also think that i can mitigate a lot
of that fear by training and preparation
actually being prepared for what i'm
doing even though i wasn't fully fully
prepared clearly i didn't have the math
equation quite right in terms of the
weight of my sled of figuring out that
preparation but also saying
fear is real but again not having to
react to it so was i afraid a lot being
alone in antarctica a hundred percent so
i couldn't take a single day off because
i would have run out of food which meant
that when the winds were blowing 50 60
70 mile per hour minus 80 degree wind
chill would give you frostbite within 10
seconds of having exposed skin like i
still had to be out there not for a
minute not for two minutes for 12 13 14
hours and then at the end of that day
what i have to do i'd have to set up my
tent now i couldn't bring any extra
weight with me it was too heavy
basically what it was so i literally
didn't bring an extra pair of underwear
with me like no extra change of clothes
so i clearly didn't have an extra tent
right no extra tent that means if i'm
setting up a tent 50-60 mile per hour
winds i tie one not wrong i clip
something in wrong it's not peg the
ground i let go boom tent's gone i'm
alone in the snowstorm in the coldest
windiest harshest place no hope for
rescue like game over like the stakes
are real
am i afraid in those moments yes i
absolutely felt fear like i'm a human
with all of the range of emotions ups
downs fears insecurities doubts all that
kind of stuff however i've also figured
out how to program my body to perform or
at least acknowledge go like oh i'm
afraid right now because like if i let
go of this tent like i could die
however that fear could either be
paralyzing meaning oh my god and that's
where i make a mistake because i'm so
afraid and i'm shaky and i'm like what
do i do where i go like oh i'm afraid
right now that's my body's response
telling me like the stakes are real this
is the time in your brain we need to
take that fear and channel the strength
from that fear and go oh this is what
means you need to focus right now you
need to double check that knot you need
to really make sure your systems are
dialed you need to take a breath and
slow down and all that and so it's not
about being fearless as in not having
fear but it's being able to assimilate
fear to not let it paralyze you and
using that as strength to focus or
whatever the situation may be
that's so interesting what would you say
is the most important thing that you did
to train for this was it the learning to
tie knots with your fingers frozen which
some of that stuff that you were doing
you know getting your hands really cold
and then having to do stuff that
required dexterity was it the vipassana
meditation like what was the thing that
you said like if i could just hand the
next person this skill what would that
skill be that's going to get him to the
other side alive you know it's
it's fun certainly that i had this
amazing coach a guy named mike mccaskill
um who's this you know he's a four-time
world record holder himself he's done 5
840 pull-ups in 20 hours something crazy
like 30 pound weight but i mean this
guy's like the real deal like jack you
know dude um and i needed to like get
stronger and put on more weight than i'd
ever had before for this he was the best
guy to train me and he came up with some
really inventive things like you had
like you know i had my hands in ice
buckets like you said but it's like okay
your hands need to be cold my heart
rate's jacked up because i've been doing
you know push-ups or running right
before that but then he has me pull my
hands out and he's like having me solve
math equations or tie knots so that i'm
like you know mind is engaged fingers
and dexterity engage this like that
training was crucial however to your
question was that the most important
thing no the most important thing that i
have experienced in my life in terms of
true training that i feel like that i
could transport to other people as a
suggestion a hundred percent has been
the pasta meditations that i've done uh
which for those who aren't familiar with
that basically it's a meditation
practice um but the best way to sort of
learn it is to go to these 10-day
courses so 10 days of silence no reading
no writing no eye contact and then yes i
learned how to control my mind better
for high performance in sports but to me
that practice um of sitting alone of
being quiet observing your breath you
know i whether it's in antarctica for 54
days alone is like the longest the pasta
meditation ever um or you know in a
course which by the way is like
completely free to go like it costs you
nothing other than 10 days of your time
and for me i always tell people that's
the best you know 10 day roi that i've
ever seen i've gone multiple times um
the impact is really you know
it's it's amazing so like getting into
what you can learn through vipassana
meditation is very interesting to me
i've never done it
i'm super intrigued more so after
hearing your story than i've ever been
and what i want to know because people
listening right now they don't
understand what the journey inside the
mind is and this is one of the reasons
that the matrix is the perfect movie to
me in terms of being a metaphor for
human life
because morpheus says the very true
quote no one can tell you what the
matrix is you have to see it for
yourself
like there's just no way to explain it
right he tries at the beginning he says
all around you it's everything you see
but like you don't really understand
what it means so like
when you say that vipassana meditation
has taken you inside the mind it's this
incredibly transformational thing that
it helps you develop awareness
for somebody who is sitting at home
thinking i have no interest in doing
that i'm convinced they have no interest
because they don't understand what it
means how would you describe it
all right i love that question it's a
fantastic question one thing i think is
beautiful about it is that because our
brains as you said are malleable or that
neuroplasticity the experience is
different for every person as well as
it's different every time you go so i've
sat um three 10-day possible courses i
try to go every year every other year um
as well as some shorter ones after that
but you got to kind of start with the
10-day
and
um it's not as if like the first time i
was like i'm getting better at this and
the second time i was like i'm pretty
good at this the third time i was like
i'm awesome at this it was like you know
even any given day in one of those 30
days that i've done it or any different
moment it's ups and downs you're right
in the cycle which is a great metaphor
for life but trying to drill down a
little more specific in in rich detail
for for a person which is maybe to help
frame that so when you're having these
ups and downs in the day is it something
like i'm at this my mind is just
running all over the place and i have no
control and i can't empty my thoughts
and i'm worried about then focusing and
then when you get into sort of a a zone
of really being engaged in the here and
now that's when it feels like you're
doing it well is that so i think in
general uh it sounds like i imagine you
have a little experience with meditation
in some format which is there's no like
being good at meditating like that's
like a total fallacy in itself which is
the entire practice of papasana teaches
you to not have either craving nor
aversion which means if you have like
this beautiful warm flow state vibration
through your body it'd be like i'm good
at this now like whatever but the second
that goes away if you start craving that
good positive flow sensation you're
actually craving for something that's
not there the same conversely as like
you're sitting there like your back
hurts your knee hurts you're this and
you're like oh my god i'm terrible at
this my mind's racing all these things
you're like i'm bad at this you have
aversion to the pain of that
circumstance versus once you go through
a full 10 day what you start to realize
is both of those things are going to
come and go there's going to be good
moments there's going to be hard moments
but both those moments are actually just
objective
so take it into antarctica terms for a
second where the meditation completely
applied to this lesson which is i got to
a place in my mind towards the end where
i could tap into flow states for a
really long period of time um and
as storms were raging on the outside of
the external there you know like i said
50 60 mile per hour ends it's blowing
it's crazy normally be like it's crazy
out here i can barely walk the wind's
blowing it's so cold i could get
frostbitten in a second like whatever or
i found the place in my mind for pasta
and go like oh
it's really windy right now the average
temperature is minus 80 degrees i'm out
here all alone objectively not wishing i
was warm not wishing i was cold not
wishing i was somewhere else just like
it is it is yes my knee hurts right now
while i'm sitting here yes i'm
experiencing a beautiful flow throughout
my body but being able to being
objective about that allows you to react
on an even plane with that but one of
the descriptions i think is useful for
people in sort of thinking about that
exercise which i just think is
tremendously valuable or just
interesting if nothing else and i
experienced it both in antarctica as
well first of my experience it was in in
the past in meditation
which was the memories inside my brain
these lucid details of memory inside my
brain what i mean by that
is when you sit in the stillness like i
could say to you hey tom um do you
remember your high school graduation and
for a second something's gonna a memory
pops into your mind right but we're
gonna keep talking and we're gonna
continue this dialogue and like you know
pretty quickly like you're not there
anymore but when you're alone for that
long particularly in antarctica when you
can't see anything but in of a pasta
meditation like no one's talking no
one's disturbing you like you go back to
a memory
but then you're there for a minute and
it's not because your iphone's not
dinging you have no distraction whatever
then you're there for two minutes five
minutes 10 minutes 20 minutes i've gone
back through memories in my life not
just significant moments but mundane
moments like driving to school with my
sister you know just like little walks
around my neighborhood when i was a kid
my first swim race but i can feel the
wind on my face i can see my mom across
the pool deck i can see you know exactly
what the person next to me was this is
me five years old remembering rich lucid
detail almost like being inside the
matrix like i'm there fully implanted in
that moment
and why i think that that's interesting
because i don't think this is a unique
experience to me is that it's a reminder
that we are all those memories think oh
maybe i forgot about that from childhood
or that trauma or that good thing that
happened to me or that person i met or i
can't remember that person's name you
know we can't recall these things always
but it's all in there like we are really
a product of all of these experiences
that we've had both good and bad and in
between and mundane and all of that and
so vipassana connected me back to that
realization of not just i am the story
that i tell myself but i'm a product of
this entire
path that i've walked in life and each
day moment to moment to moment is
important whether i can recall that in
my daily life and lose a detail or it
takes me to a meditative place to feel
that to be fully immersed in your own
journey through life and be able to
reflect on that i think is an empowerful
tool not just to go into the past but to
be certainly in the present and then to
think about the future in the way that
you want to sort of create um your own
life so to me it's just uh i don't know
if that's a full description of what the
matrix looks and or feels like but it's
a fascinating exploration the truth is
like i'm no buddha i'm no like
enlightened person i haven't like
figured it all out but what i do know
the same way i said about
why i wanted to do antarctica was this
curiosity which is just like you i'm
fascinated about the journey inward and
like i have not learned all a lesson i
probably have learned you know 0.001
percent of the lessons but like it's
fascinating and so setting myself and
putting myself in environments like a
10-day vipassana like a you know like a
daily practice like a antarctica where i
get to go deeper into the mind that's
fascinating for me because it's such
rich and fertile ground and we're just
beginning to understand like the top top
top surface layer of what's possible
from within what drives you why like so
i get the the move towards the going
inward and and having that relationship
with yourself and beginning to discover
that but i think there are far far far
easier ways to do it and certainly less
dangerous so what is it that um drives
you so i see life as
there's two forces you've got light and
dark so there's the beautiful things you
want to do the kids you want to inspire
the relationship that you have with your
wife and how you guys are doing this
together and all of that's amazing and
extraordinary um but also there's the
darkness that often pushes people for
for me for sure like even though what i
want to do in my life is have this
tremendous impact and i focus on that a
lot and it really is what drives me on
the days where i'm my most fatigued i'm
i'm just spent i don't have any more
those moments i dip into the darkness
and i think about all the people that
want me to fail i think about my own
self-doubt and
um
in very acute moments because i think
it's dangerous to be there too long but
in very acute moments it is more
powerful and it will push me forward
what cocktail of things do you have that
brought to you you know it's interesting
i uh
have been asked this question a few
different times in different formats and
i feel like someone said disappointment
people with this answer
so but it's my true answer i suppose um
you know i don't think of myself as
someone who's had a massive chip on my
shoulder you know like i grew up i grew
up poor um so i didn't have a lot of
things but i also wasn't like a huge
like you know negative thing that i wore
throughout my life just kind of like my
circumstance and
whatever um i
haven't really
i think i don't like my parents are
divorced but also i have this like
really amicable family which is like my
parents got divorced and then quickly
remarried and my step parents are like
huge influences in my life and they
brought step siblings where i don't even
call them step siblings usually siblings
and the hawaiian word my dad lives in
hawaii with a hawaiian word for family
is ohana but it's not just blood
relatives but it's in the larger context
of family and so literally this is
bizarre to most people but we have
what's called ohana weekend where it's
my mom my stepmom my dad my stepdad my
sisters from both marriages and everyone
and nephews and nieces and everyone all
in one room and if you didn't know any
of you walk in that room you'd be like
oh this is just a family but actually
it's like people who were divorced and
they're supposed to hate each other and
all this kind of stuff but we just
created family around sort of that so i
don't have this like again even with
like a you know
lower income background divorce parents
it's not like i'm like oh i have this
like the you know weight of the world on
me from that darkness what i will say
one of my darker moments for sure which
you you know mentioned in brief in the
intro is me being severely burned in
this fire so just after college um i was
traveling in thailand and i thought
jumping a flaming jump rope looked like
a great idea
um and you know rope wrapped around my
legs let my body on fire to my neck and
i had to jump in the ocean to extinguish
the flames which ultimately jumped into
the ocean saved my life but uh salt
water when you've burned off skin from
25 of your body is obviously extremely
painful
and the worst thing was i was in a tiny
little island where there was no
hospital so i had a you know moped ride
down a dirt path one room nursing
station you know cat running around my
bed and across my chest in the icu i
mean like pretty much the worst place
that you want to find yourself in a
situation like this but the worst thing
i mean the physical trauma we've talked
a lot about the mind here and the
physical trauma was immense but what
really pushed me over the edge in terms
of the dark dark dark place was the
doctors walking in on about day two or
day three of this ordeal and this you
know makeshift hospital in the middle of
nowhere in thailand and through this
broken english this thai doctor saying
to me like hey
you'll probably never walk again
normally and you're like
you know like i said i'd identified
myself as this sort of active athlete
throughout my life i'm 22 years old kind
of you know bridging the gap between
college and embarking on adulthood um
and you know in an instant i made one
stupid decision being you know a
precocious 22 year old kid thinking you
know jumping a flaming jump rope looked
like a fun idea on the beach in thailand
one day to boom like life is you know
it's over
um and
that
that moment is full of so much darkness
for me um but i'm not sure if it's
because i
choose to have a rather optimistic
perspective on the world i don't i don't
know exactly what the wiring is or that
or the sort of the nurture elements of
this but the heroine of this story is my
mother who flies all the way over to
thailand sits with me in this hospital
bed and she's you know she's in the
hallway she's crying with the doctors
you know she's pleading them for good
news saying your diagnosis must be wrong
all this kind of stuff but every day she
walks into my hospital room with this
huge smile on her face with this air of
positivity this this this daring me to
dream for like your life's not
overcalling what do you want to do just
this resonant vibration of positivity
positivity positivity positivity to kind
of compound the yang of my darkness
darkness darkness as i'm downward
spiraling further and further and
ultimately she gets me to focus my mind
she's like let's set a goal anything
whatever you dream up will you picture
yourself visualize yourself in the
future and i close my eyes that day and
picture myself oh one day i'm going to
race a triathlon and instead of her
being like hey i said set a goal like
look at your legs and the doctors and
all this kind of stuff she's like she's
like
yeah cool like that's your goal why
don't we start training right now within
a couple hours i have this thai doctor
bringing in these weights for me i'm
bandaged from the waist down i haven't
taken a step in months but i'm starting
to lift weights going like hey doc i'm
training for a triathlon i know i can't
move my legs right now but one day i'm
going to race a triathlon and you know
fast forward in my life you know 18
months i finally applied back to the
united states i learned how to walk
again through this sort of prolonged
process my mother kind of goaded me to
take my first step into the chair in
front of me getting out of a wheelchair
and all this but i get to chicago and i
race my first triathlon and to spread
the heck out of myself not just
finishing the race but actually winning
the entire race um and
it's a long form story but
you know in the interest of time
to answer your question about the
darkness is
i was in a really dark moment in time
and through my mother's guidance she
showed me actually that in these dark
moments like i said we have a choice and
she somehow convinced me and i'm
internally grateful for her to convince
me to say like focus your mind on a
positive outcome this is the bottom
you're bottoming out right now but can
only go up from here like let's get
better let's focus on like great you
want to raise a travel i could have said
i want to do anything i want to write a
book i want to do this i want to just
you know whatever it could have been
anything and she'd been like great but
she was there supporting me which made
all the difference
but what i took from that and the
ultimate lesson of winning this
triathlon was going like wow like i
don't think of myself as some like
superhuman athlete or something
something's like wow like not me but all
of us as humans have these reservoirs of
untapped potential that we can you know
extract from
when we focus our mind on these positive
outcomes so for me the darkness or like
the way you describe those hard moments
i go through all sorts of hormones i'm
out there in antarctica but i have this
ability to go back and go like
in terms of pain like i felt as like
burn accident is one of the most painful
injuries you can have you know nerve
endings exposed on your full body you're
afraid you're in the middle of nowhere
no one's speaking english there's cat
you know like it doesn't get i mean you
can get bad a lot of people i don't
pretend to know people's everyone else's
pain but for me like that is a depth of
despair um that is a pretty low low but
then knowing and having the experience
to have gotten through that
in those hard moments i can go like oh
i'm experiencing another hard moment but
this too shall pass this too shall pass
particularly it'll be they'll pass in an
expedited way
if i can refocus my energy in that
positive direction and find those
incremental steps to move forwards with
so for me that's been the darkness but
that is also
you know and i i i don't know your story
enough but i
i would i would surmise that you've
learned some of your greatest lessons
through some of your greatest failures
right by you know and so it's the same
thing where it's like yeah i made a
stupid mistake people go well do you
regret jumping the rope and i'm like i
wouldn't take it back for anything like
i wouldn't wish it on my worst enemy
either to go through that but for me now
that lesson has given me so much
strength coming out the other side of
the side of that with this curiosity
about unlocking human potential in the
other things that i pursued in my life
yeah i love that
but i'm gonna push you more because i
know give it to me in your
um
the crossing
you start off behind our boy yep and
he's winning yep and it would have been
extraordinary for you to have finished
anyway but you had kobe bryant in your
head yep telling you i'm gonna outwork
everybody yeah and you want
to talk about somebody who knows how to
leverage the darkness totally maybe
that's not what you were doing this is
not me trying to say yeah
i'm just saying there's a competitive
drive in you that i want to understand
and i want to understand it through the
lens of one i want to be able to use
that so i want to internalize the
lessons you've learned yeah and i want
to pass it on to people that are
watching this
that's awesome to me the fact
that you were like all right if this guy
does 11 hours i'm doing 12 if he does 12
i'm doing 13. and you end up winning
like you beat him by two and a half
three days or something crazy so
that mentality is so intoxicating to me
i just want to understand like where
that comes from like how does one
cultivate that in their life that's
actually what i'm asking you yes okay um
a hundred percent there is a super
competitive side of me um and completing
the crossing was always my goal even
though we didn't know if it was possible
or impossible and the fact that yes i
ultimately won this race but the fact
that after a hundred plus years no one
completing it we both completed it and i
think it's actually fascinating and it's
a cute and i waited at the finish for
lou to congratulate him because although
yes i worked my ass off to make sure
that i was first and i won this race
like it's an extraordinary
accomplishment to finish this because
the amount of people that have tried and
failed and died et cetera like that two
people could do it within a couple of
days with each other is is amazing and i
think it's probably a testament to both
of us uplifting one another in that
competitive spirit and so i do believe
that in the sort of vein of competition
that that actually drives innovation i
mean if you take it in the business
context like some of the best innovation
has come out of people going like trying
to get a competitive advantage over
their over their peers you know whether
that's whatever industry that is it's
not like you guys you didn't create the
nutrition industry like that existed but
you're like looking like well what's a
better way to do this like what's a
better way to optimize that what's
better way to market this what's a
better way of this and i imagine you
thrived off of that competition in some
way um and for me being a curious person
about you know we can talk with you know
we talk a lot with inward journey but
the curious person like what are my
edges like what is this i'm like i see
somebody else out there and i'm going
yes he's more experienced than me
he clearly has a lighter it was very
obvious from day one that he had about a
50 at least pound lighter sled than me
because i had
erred on the side of bringing more and
more food per day and like all this kind
of stuff um
but i'm going like
but he's human like he's human too i was
very intimidated by him but i was also
like but he's human too
and so
can he actually go longer than me like
your kobe bryant example which was
really relevant for me i happen to be
listening to a podcast about kobe bryant
at the time i'd listen to almost nothing
out there but it was a day where i did
listen to uh i think it was a lewis
house podcast um and he had kobe on and
he's talking about outworking people
he's like i wasn't the best basketball
player i wasn't at this but i would you
know come to the gym an hour before them
i would stay an hour later and for me i
was like okay like
let let me see what i can push i'm
exhausted out here but i'm racing
another human being like because i don't
elevate myself on some superhuman
platform so i certainly don't do that
with others either like i'm like okay
that's that's a human like so let me see
what the limits and our edges are and so
the curiosity is yes i wanted to win but
more than even wanting to win i wanted
to find
what
my potential was in that moment and i
felt that i had more to give and that
commitment in my mind the same way that
i committed to saying i can't walk right
now but i want to race a triathlon was
the same in a microcosm of that day on
the sixth day when i passed lieu of
saying like
okay i caught up to him thank god
because i thought he was long gone but
now i'm not gonna i'm gonna i'm gonna
take advantage of this moment like i'm
gonna like great like i'm gonna take
advantage of this moment this is where i
don't just go like oh great you caught
up to him how nice it's like now you
pass them now you can see if you can
stay in front like i make that a game in
my mind which is both you know i suppose
in a small sense at the expense of the
expense of the person you're competing
against but i really frame it in my mind
more as like this person this
competition is actually bringing out the
best in me like oh i have more i have
more to give and i'm just like great
like man i actually when i started i
thought i could only go 10 hours per day
literally i was like 10 hours per day
like that is a long time all alone in a
freezing cold place dragging a 375 pound
sled that's ridiculous but then that one
day when i passed him i ended up going
12 hours and then after that 12 hours i
went every single day for the next 50
days and in day 5 and day 6 12 hours
seemed unfathomable then because of this
daily competition
i proved that i could do it once and
then i go well if i can do it once i can
surely do it twice
five days then i go well let me do it
for the next five days then i'll back it
off to 10. that's what i told myself but
of course once i got five days down the
path of 12 i was like what can i do 12
and a half hours can i do you know and
that's where i started playing with that
and ultimately my final push in
antarctica on my very last day was you
know 77 miles straight 32 hours without
stopping uh and so you know it's it's
definitely there is a competitive side
for me um and in harnessing that
competition i think it's it's looking
within i think it's it's really
pursuing things that you are passionate
about i know that to get maybe gets
thrown around too much but for me it was
like i ca
i didn't end up in antarctica by like oh
maybe i should go to antarctica or i
should like go here or a desert or like
doing something this next couple months
would be cool like i was all in on this
with my family with my wife i certainly
care about the impact that i can drive
in the world and i knew that i could
have a much more significant impact be
that with my non-profit work be that
with even things that pay me well but
actually the impact that i have in the
world the voice the platform would be
more significant i'm sitting here with
you right now having this conversation
probably because i was first
and in the back of my mind i'm aware of
that i'm aware i'm going like oh like me
doing that allows me to do more of what
i love but we chose antarctica because
it was a medium or a place that i was
deeply curious about so when those two
things are combined which is the outcome
of being competitive or winning if you
will is in line with your core vision or
mission into the world as well as what
you're actually doing in the day-to-day
of the journey a lines of like oh i
wasn't just trying to get to the end
goal so i could be sitting here in this
chair having an interesting conversation
it was like i went to antarctica because
like i wanted to go to
antarctica and like see what that was
like and those two things combining
wanting the end outcome but also wanting
to be super deep immersed in the journey
when the journey got hard it was like
yeah man like this is what you signed up
for like this this is where the growth
happens i am way out far in my comfort
zone right now and lou is pushing me to
my absolute brink but like wow like this
is also really really cool and i'm i
mean i energetically excited just
talking about it because i remember that
moment and how much you know now i've
grown from that challenge i love that i
love that so much there's a
there's another side to you that i am
just beyond drawn to
uh and will smith has a quote that'll
lead us there which is he said the
reason that i've won in my life is
because i'm prepared to die in the
treadmill and most people are not
and i always love that and he gets to
have when he's playing muhammad ali he
gets to you know put on screen this
moment where he says the opponent that
i'm facing right now will never win
because what they don't understand is
that i will die in the ring before i'll
leave
i thought oh god that's so
powerful like i i really do aspire to
that in my life because of my value
hierarchy like pushing myself to really
see how much my potential i can wring
out is my highest value and so
seeing people that are driven like that
i find very interesting you had a moment
when you were climbing mount everest i
believe where um you thought you had
frostbite on your hands so severe that
you were almost certainly going to lose
your hand
and you say to yourself okay well i'm
probably going to lose my hand anyway
put it back in the glove and you keep
going because you said well if i'm gonna
lose my hand i'd rather lose it having
summited than you know turning around
and going back and i thought that was so
rad it turns out that it was a mistake
and your hand was just fine but
the fact that you were willing to keep
going so so my
my real question is what is your
relationship to death like how do you
think about it and
is there something in your value system
that's like
look i obviously want to always always
always take every precaution in the
world to avoid it and i know that you
want to die warm and surrounded by
people that you love i'm sure that's got
to be the the desired outcome but like
how do you conceptualize death and the
dance that you do with it hmm
that's a great question i love the will
smith quilt by the way so good very
powerful very powerful um i actually i
don't know if he meant this by saying it
but i like the treadmill metaphor
because i
i
love the idea of
you know yes i'm crossing antarctica the
news and the press are following this
whatever but like the only reason i'm
there is because of the 10 or 20 years
when no one was watching that i was like
showing up to the swimming pool you know
i love the phrase chop wood carry water
so i picture you know the to me the
treadmill is evocative of like the guy
alone just grinding grinding and working
towards that um so i love that but in
terms of in terms of death
um
you know
i'm aware of it in the sense that i know
that the things that i do or have done
or certainly perceived as risky people
have died attempting them the day that i
summited mount everest that you describe
as i the hand story it's funny i haven't
thought about that story in quite some
time you do your research man i'm
impressed i'm very impressed oh this is
a great interview you're awesome um the
uh
the
three people died that day on everest
that i summoned it uh not anyone that i
knew i didn't know it at the time i
didn't know until i was off the mountain
but you know to put into perspective
like the thing that i was doing on the
day that it was done three human beings
lost their life up there that day um and
that's you know terribly sad obviously
um the thing for me is that
in terms of death
i'm not seeking a young death i like you
said i'd rather than old and in a warm
bed and um i have also visualized that
outcome so i'm i'm hopefully certain
that that'll be the outcome that it will
be um
but i also
embrace living i want to live a full
life and so for me we talked about fear
before
my biggest fear um
i think about the spectrum of emotions
and human experience in a kind of a one
to ten vertical so i guess one we'll
call it's called one the worst day of
your life and ten you know pure
hedonistic euphoria of like you know
whatever that is for you
and
i think that oftentimes people
try to stay at five you know on the
maslov's hierarchy of needs or whatever
that is they're not trying to be
self-actualized or anything like that
but they're just kind of going like you
know shelter food you know basic things
are taken care of you know maybe i'm not
married to the perfect person but like
they're fine and like you know whatever
it's just kind of like they're they're
good um and i think our society and
culture definitely drives people towards
that middle in a lot of ways um
and you know maybe your best day
you know a fun saturday with your
buddies or something is a six and then
like a day where your boss yells at you
is like a four but like you're kind of
range bound in this like sort of like
four to six like kind of like the middle
of the road
and for me
that's my biggest fear my biggest fear
and as that pertains you know to living
life fully and not not being afraid of
death if you will um although i am not
like generally if i'm staying on a cliff
and it drops off five thousand i'm like
oh this is so chill i mean i'm not alex
donald um my biggest fear is that is
sort of bottoming out at that plateau of
comfortable complacency if you will uh
my mind i guess is is very visual um and
some of this will make any sense but
instead of sort of thinking of that one
to ten on a linear plane you know this
kind of like bad and best case scenario
i've actually bent that in my mind to be
kind of like a u-shape and i've got one
here and i've got ten on the side of
this u-shape and i've got four to five
and six down at the bottom here and i'm
actually trying to avoid that bottom i'm
happy to be at a one meaning that i am
confronting something that's so
challenging or so sad or so full of fear
or so exaggerating that i'm crying and
i'm afraid like but i'm feeling
something like i'm up actually it's the
same as feeling the hedonistic pleasure
of the most beautiful you know
sexy profound moment if you will
because in both senses like i'm engaged
i'm living i'm right there and so for me
the the fear is not death specifically
but the curiosity is how can i do things
in my life where i experience more ones
and i experience more tens and i spend
fewer of my moments in the four to five
and you have to pass through four
different i mean a lot of my days are
affordable you had to pass the four to
five you get to one and ten i don't
think you can live in one in ten either
but not being afraid of either outcome
so not hedging so much against being
afraid to die
that you don't fully live
that is such a great answer
i just wanna just like sit in silence
for a minute that was really really
awesome man um yeah i've never thought
about it like that but you're right like
the sense of being alive even in moments
of pain is far more interesting than the
numbness of the middle yeah so that's
really rad
tell people where they can find you and
follow this crazy journey of yours
instagram and social is kind of my main
platforms my name at colin o'brady
c-o-l-i-n-o-b-i-a-d-y
um i'm on there pretty active my website
is callingbrady.com i have a book that's
going to come out early next year so
that'll all be up on my instagram and
website and stuff like that so check
that out when it comes out in 2020
hopefully and
got some inklings about some other
expeditions and things like that nothing
ready to announce yet but my my next art
pieces will be coming to life um here at
some point so uh come say hi come follow
along i love it when people say hello
and send a direct message on instagram
stuff like that i love to hear about
everyone's life hope fears dreams goals
passions um i love hearing about all
that's what inspires me is the other
folks engage with me so come say hello
and uh yeah that's super cool all right
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world um
for me
i'm going to answer it in actual
relationship what i just said which is
i'm going to use social media as an
example actually even though there's
things that i really dislike about
social media um
when i do one of these art pieces when i
do one of these projects
and
someone writes to me and says you know
hey i'm in a bad spot in my life i'm
battling depression i can barely get out
of bed i've gotten you know several
people say hey i was thinking about
committing suicide or something like
that and someone writes me and says the
way you're living your life
has allowed me to change something in my
body in my brain that i can now get out
of that bed i can now take that first
step out of the wheelchair like you did
when you were you know burning a fire in
thailand and begin a long road of
process towards a better life
that impact for me is significant but i
want to have that impact at scale
infecting one person like that is deeply
profound and if i can infect just one
amazing it's a life well lived but what
i've started to realize is that i can't
i can't account for nor do i need to
what the impact that one person turning
around their life is with the 10 people
in their immediate community and the 10
people in the community around that and
so if i can start to impact others
through what i'm doing that ripple
effect of positivity throughout the
world i want to see people in a time
when it's easy to be at a four or five
and a six step outside that comfort zone
create innovate you know be
be fully resonant with positivity in the
world the thing that i'll close with i
suppose is when i was out in antarctica
alone for that long people say oh what
all the lessons were this you know we i
could sit here we talked hours and hours
about all the different crazy wrinkles
and things but two words kept coming
into my head over and over and over
again which was
infinite love
infinite love infinite love so much so
that when i was
in the middle of antarctica on some of
my darkest moments i'm alone completely
alone i actually felt more connected to
humanity than i'd ever been before so
much so that i actually put my arms out
like this into the air and could feel
the warmth and radiation of people
sending me positive energy and cheering
me along in my pursuit and this sounds
maybe a little woo-woo i don't know but
i felt like i could take that energy in
and i literally here's me in the middle
of an article doing this taking the
energy in
and then
sending it back out in the world
and that's the impact that i want to
have i want to take that infinite love
in
but send it out in a scalable way that
magnifies these ripple effects of
positivity throughout the world
yes
dude thank you so much for coming yeah
man my pleasure extraordinary pleasure
guys needless to say follow this man it
is just beyond extraordinary you will
see in yourself that you can do the same
kind of things that he's doing that you
can have a life full of tens and ones if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
keep calling hell man
going to work on myself and saying i
don't know how to do this
but i know that to get over there that
side i gotta grind myself into a
fine powder
and i did it